# How to build your QML application to work on Android, IOS

***environment:***
> here the other versions of android and ios could be ok

* Qt >= 5.7.*
* QtCreator >= 4.2.*
* Android 23
* IOS 10.2

### IOS
> prerequests

* You should have a mac with the lastest version of MAC OS X installed
* The latest version of xcode should be installed 
* The latest stable Qt should also be Installed

> procedure

* Open your QML project in QtCreator
* Go to **Projects** and active all **Build & Run**, in general there will be
  three type of build:
  * Desktop
  * iphoneos
  * iphonesimulator
* Then select the sub tag **Build** of each build type created before and open
  **Details** of **qmake** in compile step
  * Add **-spec macx-xcode** in the supplement argument to generate info.plist.
    This file is useful if you will try to play a video from internet which
    start with "http://" or to lock the orientation.
* If everything goes well, then you could start build your QML app to IOS, as
  I said before, in my case I got an error to play video whose url use
  "http://", here I will show how to allow it to be played on your IOS device.
  * Go to **editor** and right click on your project name, then choose
    **execute qmake**
  * Use **Finder** to go to the folder which contains your project, there
    should be a build folder which correspond your project, open it and double
    click the file **[projectname].xcodeproj** to open the project in xcode.
  * Double click the name of project in xcode to open **info.plist** editor and
    then click **Info** tag, if you cannot find **App Transport Security
    Setting** > **Allow Arbitrary Loads** then create one, just make sure the
    sub configuration **Allow Arbitrary Loads** shoule be set to true, then it
    works.
  * Another configuration should be done here is to lock the orientation, just
    open **Supported interface orientations** and then remove the orientations
    that you don't need anymore.
* Then build your project into simulator or your ios device with the help of
  xcode. By the way, you can modify your qml code with qtcreator just remember
  do not rebuild in qtcreator.

### Android

to be edited ...
